A journey into connected TVs industrialisation process, Part 1 (#392)
BedrockStreaming/tech.bedrockstreaming.com: _posts/2022-11-07-bedrock-app-launcher.md

QA teams assigned to the project know its basics, they can use PELO CLI and proprietary SDKs, but cannot debug issues they may encounter with such tools: they have to ask developers to take actions for them (as this is not their core job). Using those tools is also time-consuming and time is of the essence when making quality assurance over our releases.

Many teams also want to start environments by themselves, to test their own developments on back-end services, to investigate when a customer creates a support ticket, ...
The most important of them are Video teams, responsible for video encoding, transcoding and packaging: they are constantly testing new streams and features, and need a way to test their content by themselves, without asking around for a TVJS developer.

## Our answer: The Launcher App !

### What does it do ?

> I’ve developed a TV application to quickly and efficiently start a specific environment. Using only directional remote commands, people can select the wanted environment and be redirected to it instantly, having the app like they would with the specific app installed.

Author: J'ai changé pour plus simple "using the TV remote, ..."

![Launcher demo](/images/posts/2022-11-07-bedrock-app-launcher/launcher-demo.gif)

### Technical Architecture

The launcher is part of the TVJS monorepo, developed using React and re-using modules and packages for UI and Navigation allowing it to have minimum maintenance cost.

For the first iterations of development of the launcher, I hosted the launcher on AWS Amplify, but the Core team quickly developed a more secure and efficient way to build and deploy it.

An automatic process builds the javascript bundle and assets and sends everything to AWS S3. The launcher will then be served through Fastly CDN. We build and deploy a unique launcher per compatible manufacturer on their own domain names (as-of-writing, Samsung Tizen, LG webOS and Hisense). For security reasons, those Fastly services are only accessible through our office networks.

![Launcher technical architecture](/images/posts/2022-11-07-bedrock-app-launcher/launcher-tech-arch.png)

### Unreliability of launcher app installation

> I’m proud of this launcher and it is already saving loads of time for our QA teams ! They love it, as it helps them focus on their primary role: ensuring service & experience quality. Still, installing the launcher application on every device in our office is a huge amount of work! And, unfortunately, not a persistent one.

Author: > C'est un endroit où tu pourrais glisser que c'est utilisé au quotidien depuis X semaines ou Y mois
Je vais rajouter une couche mais plutôt dans la conclusion :)

- [Tizen Developer Mode](https://developer.samsung.com/smarttv/develop/getting-started/using-sdk/tv-device.html)
- [LG webOS Developer Mode](https://webostv.developer.lge.com/develop/getting-started/developer-mode-app)

That period of time varies. For Samsung Tizen, we’re not absolutely sure, but it’s almost a month. For LG webOS, it is 50 hours if you don’t extend the Developer Mode or if you connect another TV with the same Developer Account.

Specifically for LG, I did set up a CRON that automatically extends the Developer Mode, but sometimes it is being disconnected without reason... Or a mishandling by team members can cause the CRON to fail.

![LG webOS CRON configuration to extend Developer Mode](/images/posts/2022-11-07-bedrock-app-launcher/webos-cron.png)

![Programmatically extending the Developer Mode on LG webOS](/images/posts/2022-11-07-bedrock-app-launcher/webos-extend-devmode.gif)

> Therefore, we aren’t 100% sure the launcher application will be up and ready on all the office devices when work begins in the morning, which in turn asks for developers to manually re-install the launcher when asked by another Bedrock employee. It generates frustration for both QA and developers as they are wasting precious time to re-install the launcher.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, we aren’t 100% sure the launcher application will be up and ready on all the office devices when work begins in the morning, which means developers will have to manually re-install the launcher when asked by another Bedrock employee. It generates frustration for both QA and developers as they are wasting precious time to re-install the launcher.
```

> Don’t worry though, I already have ideas to make the installation more reliable! I’ll talk more about it in the next article.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Don’t worry though, I already have a couple of ideas to ensure the installation becomes reliable! I’ll talk more about these it in a future article.
```

## Conclusion

> Any Bedrock employee can now start an office CTV, use the launcher app, select customer and environment, hit Let’s Go and access the environment they wanted!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any Bedrock employee can now start an office CTV, use the launcher app, select customer and environment, hit Let’s Go and access the environment they need to work!
```

> What we started to measure, and hopefully we’ll have more refined metrics over the next months, is the time QA teams are gaining per day. They need an average of 15 minutes to start up a TV, set up the Developer Mode, and install the wanted app through CLI. They are validating 5 PRs per day, on 2 different devices at minimum, they almost gain one hour per day. That means our Time To Market is faster, and our QA teams have more time to do exploratory testing as well as refining their tests and writing more automated tests. Something that is not as measurable as time, is the enhanced peace of mind for them to go to work every morning knowing they have a tool designed for them to focus on their core work.

Reviewer: "They need an average of 15 minutes …"
Ils ont besoin de ce temps maintenant (vu que c'est du présent) ? Ou ils en avaient besoin avant le launcher (auquel cas il faudrait du passé) ?

Combien de temps il fallait avant ? Ou combien de temps il faut maintenant ?

> This has improved the QA team overall velocity and peace of mind! And it makes the whole project more accessible for any employee. However, there is still room for improvement regarding launcher deployment and stability over time, and this is something I will cover in our next article.

Reviewer: "peace of mind" dans cette phrase, il y était aussi dans la précédente. Ca fait une répétition :-(

> I sincerely hope you liked this article and it helped you if you’re trying to achieve something similar! Of course, please, feel free to comment and add your thoughts!

Reviewer: En français, je dis souvent "les mots en -ment mentent" (les adverbes).
Ca s'applique aussi en anglais, ou "words with -ly lie".
-> "sincerely" ne sert à rien dans cette phrase 🤷‍♂️ 

"feel free to comment" > heu, y'a un système de commentaire sur ce blog ? 🤣
